Essay Questions and Answers:
1.	Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?

I have great passion for programming. I have started programming since 1988-1989 using GWBASIC and BASICA Languages under DOS.

During my employment as Sales Engineer and Products Manager, I have always implemented my programming skills to enhance and automate my workflow.

Following to our immigration to the United States, I immediately started my work as freelance software developer, providing customers, world-wide, and from diverse business sectors with various solutions using C/C++ and VB languages under Windows and Linux.

I am always eager to learn new technologies. 
In the past few years, I have self-taught myself many programming topics, including: Object Oriented Programming, JAVA, Bit Manipulation, Time Complexity, Sorting & Searching, Trees, Dynamic Programming, MCU Programming and Oracle/ZOS.
I have also joined online classes and achieved high grades in courses such as Data Analysis and Visualization using Excel modeling data.

During my free time, I participate in competitive programming challenges such as HackerRank. 

My young daughter is also very interested in programming and I am currently teaching her some basic programming lines as I am writing a book on how to start coding. 

I believe that the opportunity to join professional software development team will have great effect on my daughter’s life and future career.


2.	If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years? 

My acceptance into the Ada’s program will provide me with course of simulated realistic professional experience in software programming.

In 5 years, I see myself as top performing employee, contributor and inspirer. I will be part of a great team of individuals making a difference in the IT community.
I will always continue to learn and enhance my programming skills and career.


3.	After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program 


I believe that my diversified experience in Information Technology, current programming skills, mathematics capability and ability to learn will perfectly align me with Ada’s vision.

My previous non-programming experience in Sales, Management and Networking has underrepresented my profile as a professional candidate in software development.

Ada’s mission and program will help my transitioning into the professional software development field and provide me with the opportunity to contact professionals in the IT field.
 
I am very excited about the possibility of joining the Ada’s classroom training and look forward to join real collaborative software development environment, as paid internship or unpaid externship.
My first priority is to start the first step in my professional career as software developer.

I am very professional and organized. I monitor my progress to over achieve and meet deadlines.
I pay great attention to details and work standards. I Integrate easily with team members and managers.

With my background and experience, I am sure that I will be able to prove my capabilities in minimum time and be a great addition to any coding team.

I intend to take this opportunity to inspire and help other underrepresented individuals, achieve their dreams of becoming software developers, regardless of their age, experience, background and any other differences.


4.	Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently? 
During my employment at Qasr Hospital in Jordan, I was asked to design and develop complete software solution for hospital admission and billing.
The hospital has never implemented any computerized system before and relied entirely on paper-based workflow.

The software was design to meet upper-management specifications without any feedback from end-users.
The solution was perfectly designed with expandability and versatility features in mind, to achieve all requirements and solve limitations found in other ready-made solutions.
 
However, when the first module was released, end-users found huge difference between the paper forms and the electronics entries.

Moreover, the new software module was introduced in parallel with the paper work to achieve easy transition. The end-user staff had to cope with the two different layouts of the paper-forms and screen windows. This has generated big delays and overload work, especially at peak hours. 

After regular meetings with the concerned users, I modified the layout to match the paper forms as close as possible. I have also conducted multiple training and review sessions to make sure that the team is up to date with all changes and design ideas.

The staff has mastered the new software in minimum time and became as professional and speedy as they were using the old paper forms.

The project was completed successfully with comprehensive reporting capabilities that are still in use to date. 
All modules were designed using the same approach, making sure that both the management and end-users. are contributing to the front and back-end of the applications.

The software design process is one of the most important stages in software development. Each design case should take the environment’s situation and history into consideration.
I have also emphasized the importance of communications during all future work.

I still use the same methodology during my freelance proposals. Submitting sample interfaces to the clients and receiving important feedback from all or most concerned parties. 
